---
title: 'Origin story'
date: '2019-02-05'
---

Alright. I think this is the 4th time in 6 years that I'm starting a new blog.
But this time, this is it. This time I'll be serious about blogging. I took
several days for learning [Gatsby](https://gatsbyjs.org), for designing and for
coding this blog. I bought this kickass nayed.blog domain name. I already have
several posts idea for this blog. Yep, everything is set for me to finally blog.
For real.  
Welcome to my blog. My name is Nayed SaÃ¯d Ali and I'll be talking about tech
stuff and other non-related tech stuff.

But what I like to start as a first post is my story. Here it is.

---

<iframe
  height="500"
  frameborder="0"
  style="border:0"
  src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed/v1/view?center=-11.702902,43.25222&zoom=5&key=AIzaSyD9l_Oj8S4zr8djo7ezUL6OAj_7CEjBhXA"
  allowfullscreen
  >
</iframe>

I was born February 6, 1992, in a little archipelago between Africa and
Madagascar called [Comoros](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comoros). Born in
[Moroni](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moroni,_Comoros) the capital city of
Comoros. But actually I did not lived there, you see Comoros are made of 4
islands and I lived the first 8 years of my life on the island of
[Mayotte](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mayotte).

I lived a quiet and peaceful life there, without knowing the cold, the pollution
or other #FirstWorldProblem /s.  
I had a fantastic childhood there. I remember playing outside with friends and
playing at home hours and hours of Tomb Raider, Crash Bandicoot, Tekken and
other 90s games on the PlayStation. Yep, a very basic childhood in the 90's.
When I was playing the Ps1, I remember asking my parents and other relatives HOW
video games were made. It was so fascinating it seemed almost magical. And I
think it's at that time that I begun my interest in computers. There was an
Internet cafÃ© that openned across the street and I was mesmerized by those
little bright interactive tv-box-thing...

Then in late 2000 we moved to France (not my first time there, we travelled
quite a lot in my childhood) in
[Marseille](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marseille). We did not stay there very
long, less than a year.

<iframe
  height="500"
  frameborder="0"
  style="border:0"
  src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed/v1/view?center=45.757175,4.831332&zoom=6&key=AIzaSyD9l_Oj8S4zr8djo7ezUL6OAj_7CEjBhXA"
  allowfullscreen
  >
</iframe>

And then we moved to the city I consider it to be my hometown, my spot, my
hills, my heaven, my hood: [Lyon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lyon). (Yes I'm
a very proud _lyonnais_).  
I stayed there from 9 to 26 years-old. Those 17 years were incredible. It's the
end of my childhood, all of my teenagehood and the beginning of my adulthood.

And this is were one of my big passion has its roots. From elementary school to
high school I saw the football team of my city,
l'[Olympique Lyonnais](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Olympique_Lyonnais) win 7
successive domestic titles (a record in France.. and maybe in Europe?). I
remember every big wins and wins and losses. I saw them beating some of the best
european teams like Manchester United or Bayern Munich and humiliating Real
Madrid for years and years (3-0, 2-0, 1-0, and in round of 16). It was so good.
And I was angry and sad when they lost the most important games in the Champions
League. Well you probably get the idea. This is my favorite football team.

In the meantime, I had my first computer at 11 years old in 2003. An awesome
Packard Bell that lasted 8 years, which for today electronic device seems like
an eternity. With it, oh boy, I have so many hours of play-time. I don't play a
lot of different games, but when I choose a game it's for 1000's hours. Mostly
on this bad boy, I played Rappelz (a korean MMORPG), Trackmania, Civilization,
GTA San Andreas and you can already guess my favorite game: FIFA.

Like every teens of my generation, the internet was my playground. We stayed
hours chatting on MSN, laughing at memes and watching funny and dumb videos on
Dailymotion and later Youtube. Everyone of us had a Skyblog (a kind of french
tumblr) or a MySpace (I did not have one, and never 'got it'). And all of a
sudden, Facebook was THE thing to have (funny to see how less and less of my
friends are using it now..).

Alright let's go back in time a little bit. We are somewhere between 2005
and 2006. Maybe sooner maybe later I don't recall. At that time I encoutered a
website that will change my life and is one of the main reason why I have chosen
to be a web developer.

You know how people says that Apple revolutionized the smartphone industry
right? So who revolutionized the web industry? Do you remember how websites
looked like in 2000-2010? Basically, it was kind of like looking at.. documents?
And you were scrolling pages til the end unless there was a link to click on to
open that will redirect you to an another document to scroll etc. So how were we
able to move from that era to interactive website, live-streaming content and
360Â° videos?

For me, there is this website that blew my mind (and honestly I will not be
surprised to hear if that was also the case for the web industry). This website
is.. [Google Earth](https://earth.google.com/web/).

Remember, I mean remember! Almost all of the websites looked like documents with
some colors, pictures and links. And then there was Google Earth. YO THIS SHIT
WAS LIT ðŸ”¥ðŸ”¥ðŸ”¥ (and still is). You could see the Earth, rotate it, zoom to some
random area in the world and just, play around. It was as interactive as.. as a
video game in a web browser! This was my second HOW did they made it???  
That's it. This. Right there. I wanna make some awesome cool stuff on the web
when I'll be an adult. This was my calling to become a web developer.
Definitely.

And here I am, after years of programming at school and several internships, I
moved from Lyon to Paris, to be closer to companies that influences the internet
and to fulfill my dream.

So welcome to my blog. My name is Nayed SaÃ¯d Ali and I'll be talking about tech
stuff and other non-related tech stuff.

_Plus ultra_
